Prayer for the Swift Rebirth of Jamyang Khyenrab Tayé1
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

jamyang lama gyepé zi ö lé
Through the brilliance of the Mañjughoṣa Guru’s delight,
khyen rab ö nang tayé sa sum dal
Wisdom’s infinite radiance pervades the three worlds.
shyenpen jam dang tsewé rang zuk chok
Supreme embodiment of altruism, kindness and love,
shenyen mawé wangpo solwa deb
Mighty spiritual friend and teacher, to you I pray.

pendé jungné gyalwé ten
Buddha’s teachings are the source of benefit and happiness,
der dzinjé par da mepé
And you are peerless in upholding them,
ngepa dön gyi khepa ché
A great scholar in the definitive sense,
khyen rab tayé solwa deb
Khyenrab Thayé—'Limitless Wisdom'—to you I pray.

kyema gönpo khyen rab nyima dé
Alas! Now that this protector, sun-like in wisdom,
ying su nalwé münpa tar gyur ching
Reposes in absolute space, darkness has come.
mi shé lünpö mün chen trikpa la
Into the murky gloom of ignorance and folly
gönpö yeshe nangwa gyepar dzö
Let the light of this protector’s wisdom shine!

gangdu shek kyang demchok dewa ché
Wherever you may have gone, do not resort, I pray,
rangdön shyiwé patar mi shyolpa
To the extreme of self-serving peace and highest ecstasy,
chok chu nam su trulpa tayepé
But send infinite emanations throughout the ten directions
ten drö dön chen tayé drub tu sol
To bring immense benefit to the teachings and to beings.

dak kyang deng né tserab tamché du
For me, too, from this time on throughout my future lives,
gönpo chok gi tukjé mi tong shying
May you never forsake me in your compassion, O protector,
ngejung tsultrim changchub sem chok dang
And may you always inspire me with renunciation, discipline,
yangdak tawa tokpar jingyi lob
Sublime bodhicitta and realization of the authentic view.

Written by Jamyang Chökyi Lodrö. May it be virtuous! Maṅgalaṃ. Śubhaṃ.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2022.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung 'bum. 12 vols.
Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. (BDRC W1KG12986). Vol. 3: 597

Version: 1.0-20220128
↑ The original text is untitled; this title has been added by the translator.