The Tambura of Devotion
A Prayer for the Swift Appearance of the Supreme Tulku of the All-Seeing Conqueror and Cardinal
Guardian of the Land of Snows
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

Namo guru lokeśvarāya!

nyingjé wangchuk chak na pekar chang
Mighty lord of compassion, holder of the white lotus,
dengdir ngur mik gar gyi namrol ba
Appearing in a dance-like display in saffron-robes,
domtsön gyalpö tsul ten tamché khyen
All-knowing observer of vows in kingly guise—
lobzang tubten gyatsor solwa deb
Lobzang Tubten Gyatso, to you I pray.

ngabgyé nyikmar tenpa rinchen dang
Sole guardian and protector of living beings who are infinite in number
tayé drowa kyabpé gön chikpu
And the precious teachings during this degenerate, five-hundred-year age,
gyal chok kadrin tsungdral khorlö gön
Supreme conqueror, lord of the maṇḍala, incomparable in your kindness,
lama chak na pemor solwa deb
Guru Padmapāṇi, to you I pray.

bö kham jong dir lalö jukpa nam
You halt the advance of barbarians in this land of Tibet,
gyün ché trinlé nam shyi dul dzepa
And subjugate them through the four kinds of activity.1
rikden chö kyi gyalpo ngö nangwa
You are the noble King of Dharma manifesting directly,
palden lama dru dzin dakpor dü
Glorious Lord of the Potala, to you I bow down.

gang khyö kyechi jik lerab drol yang
Although you are entirely unafraid of birth and death,
dak sok sönam menpar gyurpa yi
Our stores of merit are but meagre and, as a result,
pakpé ku yi nangwa ying su tim
The display of your noble form has faded into space.
dani tenpé ngadak su la ré
Who now will act as a sovereign of the teachings?

kyi hü shyiwé ying su mi zimpar
Alas! Do not lie dormant in the realm of peace, I pray,
lar yang shying dir gön khyö ngö nang shying
But return directly to this domain, O protector,
duwa nam shyi ten drö dön dur né
To secure the welfare of teachings and beings through the four means of attraction,2
lab chen pendé pelwar dzé du sol
And bring about immense waves of benefit and happiness.

dü kyi kalpé gokpar magyur ching
Do not be obstructed by the misfortune of this age.
nyurdu sherab gyumé lhum shyuk né
Swiftly enter the illusory womb of a wisdom mother,
ku tam chotrul kyegu gawé sö
And let the magic of your birth bring joy to beings.
ngotsar roltsé ngompar dzé du sol
Take up this wondrous and playful role, I pray.

tsul né tö sam gompé tob gyé shing
Disciplined, with the full strength of study, reflection and meditation,
khyen nyi yeshe nangwé tsal dzok né
May you perfect the power of primordial wisdom's twofold knowledge,
rimé tubten salwé drönmé ru
And, as a lamp that illuminates the Buddha's teachings without bias,
mingyur dorjé tri la shyuk su sol
Remain upon the immutable vajra throne, I pray.

deng né zung té chimé mu tewar
From this moment forth, on into the distant future,
ten drö güpa tadak tsené shyi
May you eradicate all that harms the teachings and beings,
karpö ö nang chok gyar dalwa shyik
And spread the bright light of beneficence in all directions—
gangri gönpö tukjé zik su sol
Guardian of the Land of Snows, look upon us with compassion, I pray.

detar soltab denpé nütu yi
Through the power of the truth of praying in this way,
yi la mönpa jishyin drub gyur ching
May all these aspirations of mine be perfectly fulfilled,
lama chak na pemö jezung né
May the guru Padmapāṇi care for and guide me,
tek chok chö la rangwang jorwar shok
And may I master the Dharma of the supreme vehicle.

sangye tenpa rinchen dar shing gyé
May the precious teachings of Buddha spread far and wide,
dé dzin gendün düpa miché ching
May the companies of saṅgha who uphold them remain united,
tenpé jindak tsesö gyepa dang
May patrons of the teachings enjoy long lives and abundant merit,
bö kham tashi nangwé khyab gyur chik
And may the light of auspiciousness shine throughout Tibet.

gawa gyaden chimé lha yi drong
May the spiritual and secular teachings of the great palace—
sa dir pöpé podrang chenpo yi
Which is as if transferred to this world from the city of immortal gods
chösi tenpa yündu nepa dang
Who enjoy a hundred joys—remain long into the future
dü kyi yul lé nampar gyal gyur chik
And bring perfect victory over the hostile forces of Māra.

Thus, not long after having made this prayer for swift rebirth combined with an invocation of
the master's wisdom mind on the 14th of the twelfth month of the Water Bird year,3 when
receiving a request from the supreme son of the Ümda Shelkar family whose strength of merit
is unequalled, I, Jamyang Lodrö Gyatso, who holds the name of an activity emanation of the
Jamyang Lama, Khyentse Wangpo, wrote this out and offered it. May it bring virtue and excellence.
Maṅgalaṁ.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "gangs can mgon po rgyal mchog thams cad mkhyen pa'i
mchog sprul myur 'byon gsol 'debs/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12
vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 3: 575–577
↑ i.e., pacifying, enriching, magnetizing and subjugating.↑ The four means of attracting disciples
(bsdu ba’i dngos po bzhi) are: 1) being generous; 2) speaking pleasantly; 3) teaching
according to individual needs; and 4) acting in accordance with one’s teaching.↑ i.e.,
12 January 1934. The Thirteenth Dalai Lama died on 17 December 1933.