The Swift Fulfilment of Wishes
A Prayer for the Swift Return of the Supreme Tulku of the Fifth Drubwang Dzogchen Rinpoche
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

om svasti
Oṃ svasti.
tsa sum rabjam tukjé den tob dang
Through the forceful truth of the compassion of infinite deities of the Three Roots,
gyü sum damchen gyatsö nütu dang
And the power and strength of an ocean of oath-bound guardians related to the three tantras,
denpé tob kyi namdak mönpé né
Together with the force of reality itself, inspire us with your blessings
gekmé nyurdu drubpar jingyi lob
So that these pure objects of aspiration may be swiftly and unobstructedly fulfilled!

kham sum chö kyi gyalpo dzogchenpa
Dzogchenpa, sovereign of Dharma throughout the three realms,
palden lama chö kyi dorjé yi
Glorious guru Chökyi Dorje,
ngotsar chok gi trulpé da shyal ni
May the wondrous, moon-like face of your supreme emanation
ten dro chi dang sang chen ngagyur gyi
Swiftly reappear as a protector of the teachings and beings in general
shedrub tenpé gön du nyur jön shok
And  of the Dharma that is taught and practised in the Great Secret Ancient Translation School
in particular.

chö kyi ying lé zuk kyi kur shyeng né
Arise in a body of form out of the dharmadhātu expanse,
barché dü dé yul lé nampar gyal
To bring perfect victory over obstacles and the forces of Māra.
dön nyi lhündrub duwa nampa shyi
Through spontaneously accomplishing the two aims with the four means of attraction,1
tayé drowé rewa kong gyur chik
May you fulfil the hopes and dreams of infinite living beings!

Chökyi Lodrö offered this prayer in accordance with the request of Gelong Zangpo. Siddhirastu!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "grub dbang rdzogs chen lnga pa'i mchog sprul myur 'byon
gsol 'debs/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse
Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 3: 605
↑ The four means of attracting disciples (bsdu ba’i dngos po bzhi) are: 1) being generous; 2)
speaking pleasantly; 3) teaching according to individual needs; and 4) acting in accordance
with one’s teaching.