Wondrous Light of the Moon
A Prayer for the Swift Appearance of the Supreme Tulku of Vajradhara Jamyang Loter Wangpo
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

ku shyi yeshe ngaden dorjé chang
Vajradhara who possesses the five wisdoms of the four kāyas,
den sum tsangwé depön heruka
Heruka guide for whom all three seats are complete,
kyilkhor gyatsö khyabdak dorjé sem
Vajrasattva, the lord whose presence extends to oceanic maṇḍalas—
yermé palden lamar solwa deb
The one who is inseparable from them all, glorious guru, to you I pray.

jampal yang kyi lodrö khyenpé ter
Treasure of knowledge with the intelligence of Mañjuśrīghoṣa,
pekar changwé nyimé nyingjé chu
Stream of compassion indivisible from the Holder of the White Lotus,1
sangwé dakpö tuk kyi sangdzö nam
And hidden treasury of the wisdom mind of the Lord of Secrets2—
chik gyur palden lamar solwa deb
The one who embodies them all, glorious guru, to you I pray.

chöying benza yogé shyingkham né
Emanate swiftly now, out of the dharmadhātu realm of Vajrayoginī,
zuk kyi ku chok khawachen jong dir
In a supreme nirmāṇakāya form and return to this Land of Snows
nyurdu tro né dak sok dulja la
To bring those students to be trained, such as myself, to maturity
namdak wang shyi char gyün gyi min dzö
Through a continuous stream of the four utterly pure empowerments.

palbar mahakalé tu jin gyi
Through the power and blessings of Mahākāla who blazes in splendour,
barché dü shyi yul lé rab gyal né
May we enjoy perfect victory over all obstacles and the forces of Māra,
tubten chi dang tsewa chenpo yi
And may everything be auspicious so that the Buddhist teachings in general
ringluk chok tar gyepé tashi shok
And your own tradition of vast loving care spread unto the farthest reaches of this world.

Thus, when Jamyang Loter Wangpo, the embodiment of Vajrasattva, lord of a hundred buddha families,
merged his wisdom mind with the great peace of the dharmadhātu, to honour the instruction
of Khenchen Rinpoche Jamyang Kunzang Tenpai Gyaltsen of Ewaṃ Thartse for whom I have
tremendous faith and respect, I, Jamyang Chökyi Lodrö, or Tsuklak Lungrik Mawé Nyima, the
lowliest of the lord of the maṇḍala's disciples, offered this single-pointed supplication.
May it become a cause for the swift appearance of the moon-like face of a supreme emanation.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "blo gter mchog sprul gyi myur 'byon gsol 'debs ngo
mtshar zla snang /" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse
Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 3: 585–586
↑ i.e., Avalokiteśvara.
↑ i.e., Vajrapāṇi.